there is a particular physical
phenomenon that I've always wanted to
see but I've never been able to quite
set it up that changes today this is a
piece of bullet-resistant acrylic
specifically rated up to nine
millimeters this is a phantom V 2511
stupid fast frame rates I've always
wanted to see the specific spot where a
bullet interacts with a piece of armor
right at the nose of the bullet think
about it that moment in time where the
tip of the bullet hits the strike
surface is so small in time that it's
hard to imagine the physics that's going
on the good thing is now we can
visualize it in order to do this you
have to line up the flight path of the
bullet directly in line with the camera
and not only that I don't want to see a
9-millimeter try to penetrate this
acrylic but not do it I also want to see
what it looks like when you actually get
through hey it's me Destin welcome back
to smarter every day I'm here with Gavin
hello and Dan from the slow mo guys
wrote ed and what we're gonna do today
is something I've been wanting to do for
a really really long time 170,000 frames
per second you think oh I'm not 120 at
the moment we could go up to 170 let's
try it okay we're gonna use a wireless
trigger on the high-speed because we
don't want to be anywhere near a bullet
hitting bullet-resistant glass so I've
got a shield for the camera and we use a
wireless trigger a new safe you actually
know how to run the fan on well yeah
we're gonna close ready yeah exactly
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
so went in and it mushroomed out and it
kind of peeled out the edges on the
outside there but that one little spot
that you can see you can see through it
this is weird science time here I
thought that the exact spot the bullet
touched the acrylic first would suffer
the most damage but clearly that's not
happening
I've got to thinking about this and I
think it has something to do with an old
word called a frustum according to this
old dictionary a frustum is a cone with
the top cut off let's imagine that this
is our acrylic plate the bullet
interacts with the top of the plate at
the point of impact right here that
force tries to punch its way all the way
through the plate now long time ago
engineers figured out that stress isn't
transmitted through a plate like a
cylinder it's actually something called
a pressure cone every material has its
own compression cone angle this is what
I honestly think's going on here stress
is equal to force divided by area I know
that much as the force is distributed
over a wider and wider area as it goes
down through the acrylic you eventually
get to the point with a nine millimeter
where it no longer has the ability to
fracture the acrylic the stress isn't
high enough however a 50 Cal would
definitely do that because there's a
much larger pressure cone it gets
further through the material we
basically get to the part where it'll
just break out the back so there there's
a larger pressure cone I've set some big
words we've got a little bit I think
that means we get to play with the 50
Cal now this limo guys video here we go
hot
this cone of the front is like ejecta
material being forced out of a meteor
impact where's this stuff in the back is
that cone is the stress propagating
through the material that's that's so
pretty
sweet okay weapons flare
[Music]
[Applause]
dude okay real quick I wanna say thank
you to the company that gave us the
bullet resistant glass to be clear it's
not supposed to protect against 50 Cal
rounds it's just 9 mil stir not correct
not 50 Cal correct but we'll leave a
link in the video description for those
guys so we can all agree that that's
stinkin awesome slow-mo right but
there's more to it than just cool
footage I want you to think about
fracture mechanics think about the
pressure cone as it goes down through
material and how it has to get above the
minimum fracture stress in order for it
to do its thing so just think about it
on a deeper level also obviously this
was a collaboration video I'm actual
real-life friends with Gavin and Dan
super cool dudes the way I'm just gonna
go straight to the front door here the
way a collaboration video works is the
hope is that more of you would subscribe
to smarter every day and more of you
that watch smarter every day will go
subscribe to the slow mo guys so please
consider subscribing to this video if
you feel like it end it but the most
important thing here is for you to go
watch the video on the slow mo guys and
subscribe to them I want to say thank
you to Gavin and Dan the slow mo guys
for coming out and helping Gavin knows
what he's doing and Dan knows his way
around a weapon as well so what's its
last bite yeah play team strings well we
let Dan come out anyway so if you wanna
check out some stuff on their channel
what are you doing over there we're
using a mirror to shoot the camera
directly in the face with a 50 Cal
hopefully see the bullet coming towards
my lens so if you miss your shot was it
uh seven five Orion where the guy was
shooting the German was shooting with a
sniper rifle it just sees the guy the
flash of the weapon that goes into the
scope of the guys the Germans right here
less violent version of that pretty much
that except no one dies this is them
shooting in the intro for their video
right now I think you'll dig it go check
it out anyway I'm Destin you're getting
smarter every day have a good one
this one ounce the part of the video
where I put subscribe buttons in the
corner and hope that you will subscribe
to them and then I do something
interesting visually interesting in
hopes that you will have your attention
drawn over there and click one of the
subscribe buttons so this is my attempt
to be visually interesting and convince
you to click the subscribe
my buttons there you go